README.md, before:

# Dynamic Routes for Next.js

**NOTICE: This is a fork of [fridays/next-routes](https://github.com/fridays/next-routes). This be maintained for changes relevant to [Yolk's](https://github.com/Yolk-HQ/) interests, but we are not prioritizing community contributions at this time. When [Next.js introduces its own dynamic routing solution](https://github.com/zeit/next.js/issues/4989), this package will become obsolete. See also: https://github.com/fridays/next-routes/issues/244.**

[![npm (scoped)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@yolkai/next-routes.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@yolkai/next-routes) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/elliottsj/next-routes.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/elliottsj/next-routes)

Easy to use universal dynamic routes for [Next.js](https://github.com/zeit/next.js)

- Express-style route and parameters matching
- Request handler middleware for express & co
- `Link` and `Router` that generate URLs by route definition

## How to use

Install:

```bash
npm install @yolkai/next-routes --save
```

Create `routes.js` inside your project:

```javascript
const nextRoutes = require('@yolkai/next-routes').default

// Or, if using ES modules:
// import nextRoutes from '@yolkai/next-routes'

                                                    // Name   Page      Pattern
const routes = nextRoutes()                          // ----   ----      -----
  .add('about')                                     // about  about     /about
  .add('blog', '/blog/:slug')                       // blog   blog      /blog/:slug
  .add('user', '/user/:id', 'profile')              // user   profile   /user/:id
  .add('/:noname/:lang(en|es)/:wow+', 'complex')    // (none) complex   /:noname/:lang(en|es)/:wow+
  .add({name: 'beta', pattern: '/v3', page: 'v3'})  // beta   v3        /v3

module.exports = routes

// Or, if using ES modules:
// export default routes
```

This file is used both on the server and the client.

API:

- `nextRoutes.add([name], pattern = /name, page = name)`
- `nextRoutes.add(object)`

Arguments:

- `name` - Route name
- `pattern` - Route pattern (like express, see [path-to-regexp](https://github.com/pillarjs/path-to-regexp))
- `page` - Page inside `./pages` to be rendered

The page component receives the matched URL parameters merged into `query`

```javascript
export default class Blog extends React.Component {
  static async getInitialProps ({query}) {
    // query.slug
  }
  render () {
    // this.props.url.query.slug
  }
}
```

## On the server

```javascript
// server.js
const next = require('next')
const routes = require('./routes')
const app = next({dev: process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production'})
const handler = routes.getRequestHandler(app)

// With express
const express = require('express')
app.prepare().then(() => {
  express().use(handler).listen(3000)
})

// Without express
const {createServer} = require('http')
app.prepare().then(() => {
  createServer(handler).listen(3000)
})
```

Optionally you can pass a custom handler, for example:

```javascript
const handler = routes.getRequestHandler(app, ({req, res, route, query}) => {
  app.render(req, res, route.page, query)
})
```

Make sure to use `server.js` in your `package.json` scripts:

```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "node server.js",
  "build": "next build",
  "start": "NODE_ENV=production node server.js"
}
```

## On the client

Import `Link` and `Router` from your `routes.js` file to generate URLs based on route definition:

### `Link` example

```jsx
// pages/index.js
import routes from '../routes'

const { Link } = routes

export default () => (
  <div>
    <div>Welcome to Next.js!</div>
    <Link route='blog' params={{slug: 'hello-world'}}>
      <a>Hello world</a>
    </Link>
    or
    <Link route='/blog/hello-world'>
      <a>Hello world</a>
    </Link>
  </div>
)
```

API:

- `<Link route='name'>...</Link>`
- `<Link route='name' params={params}> ... </Link>`
- `<Link route='/path/to/match'> ... </Link>`

Props:

- `route` - Route name or URL to match (alias: `to`)
- `params` - Optional parameters for named routes

It generates the URLs for `href` and `as` and renders `next/link`. Other props like `prefetch` will work as well.

### `Router` example

```jsx
// pages/blog.js
import React from 'react'
import routes from '../routes'

const { Router } = routes

export default class Blog extends React.Component {
  handleClick () {
    // With route name and params
    Router.pushRoute('blog', {slug: 'hello-world'})
    // With route URL
    Router.pushRoute('/blog/hello-world')
  }
  render () {
    return (
      <div>
        <div>{this.props.url.query.slug}</div>
        <button onClick={this.handleClick}>Home</button>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

API:

- `Router.pushRoute(route)`
- `Router.pushRoute(route, params)`
- `Router.pushRoute(route, params, options)`

Arguments:

- `route` - Route name or URL to match
- `params` - Optional parameters for named routes
- `options` - Passed to Next.js

The same works with `.replaceRoute()` and `.prefetchRoute()`

It generates the URLs and calls `next/router`

---

Optionally you can provide custom `Link` and `Router` objects, for example:

```javascript
const nextRoutes = require('@yolkai/next-routes').default

const routes = nextRoutes({
  Link: require('./my/link')
  Router: require('./my/router')
})

module.exports = routes
```

---

##### Related links

- [zeit/next.js](https://github.com/zeit/next.js) - Framework for server-rendered React applications
- [path-to-regexp](https://github.com/pillarjs/path-to-regexp) - Express-style path to regexp

Commit message:

updated readme and fixed issue with data

README.md, after:

# Dynamic Routes for Next.js

**NOTICE: This is a fork of [fridays/next-routes](https://github.com/fridays/next-routes). This be maintained for changes relevant to [Yolk's](https://github.com/Yolk-HQ/) interests, but we are not prioritizing community contributions at this time. When [Next.js introduces its own dynamic routing solution](https://github.com/zeit/next.js/issues/4989), this package will become obsolete. See also: https://github.com/fridays/next-routes/issues/244.**

[![npm (scoped)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@yolkai/next-routes.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@yolkai/next-routes) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/elliottsj/next-routes.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/elliottsj/next-routes)

Easy to use universal dynamic routes for [Next.js](https://github.com/zeit/next.js)

- Express-style route and parameters matching
- Request handler middleware for express & co
- `Link` and `Router` that generate URLs by route definition

## How to use

Install:

```bash
npm install @yolkai/next-routes --save
```

Create `routes.js` inside your project:

```javascript
const nextRoutes = require('@yolkai/next-routes').default

// Or, if using ES modules:
// import nextRoutes from '@yolkai/next-routes'

                                                    // Name   Page      Pattern
const routes = nextRoutes()                          // ----   ----      -----
  .add('about')                                     // about  about     /about
  .add('blog', '/blog/:slug')                       // blog   blog      /blog/:slug
  .add('user', '/user/:id', 'profile')              // user   profile   /user/:id
  .add('/:noname/:lang(en|es)/:wow+', 'complex')    // (none) complex   /:noname/:lang(en|es)/:wow+
  .add({name: 'beta', pattern: '/v3', page: 'v3'})  // beta   v3        /v3

module.exports = routes

// Or, if using ES modules:
// export default routes
```

This file is used both on the server and the client.

API:

- `nextRoutes.add([name], pattern = /name, page = name)`
- `nextRoutes.add(object)`

Arguments:

- `name` - Route name
- `pattern` - Route pattern (like express, see [path-to-regexp](https://github.com/pillarjs/path-to-regexp))
- `page` - Page inside `./pages` to be rendered. Can be a function: 

```javascript
({ name, params: { param1, param2 }, data }) => '${param1}/${param2}'
```
 or a path:
``` 
/:param1/:param2
```
Assuming `param1 = 'a' and param2 = 'b' ` Both of these examples would resolve to `./pages/a/b.js` and the page component receives the matched URL parameters merged into `query`

```javascript
export default class Blog extends React.Component {
  static async getInitialProps ({query}) {
    // query.slug
  }
  render () {
    // this.props.url.query.slug
  }
}
```

## On the server

```javascript
// server.js
const next = require('next')
const routes = require('./routes')
const app = next({dev: process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production'})
const handler = routes.getRequestHandler(app)

// With express
const express = require('express')
app.prepare().then(() => {
  express().use(handler).listen(3000)
})

// Without express
const {createServer} = require('http')
app.prepare().then(() => {
  createServer(handler).listen(3000)
})
```

Optionally you can pass a custom handler, for example:

```javascript
const handler = routes.getRequestHandler(app, ({req, res, route, query}) => {
  app.render(req, res, route.page, query)
})
```

Make sure to use `server.js` in your `package.json` scripts:

```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "node server.js",
  "build": "next build",
  "start": "NODE_ENV=production node server.js"
}
```

## On the client

Import `Link` and `Router` from your `routes.js` file to generate URLs based on route definition:

### `Link` example

```jsx
// pages/index.js
import routes from '../routes'

const { Link } = routes

export default () => (
  <div>
    <div>Welcome to Next.js!</div>
    <Link route='blog' params={{slug: 'hello-world'}}>
      <a>Hello world</a>
    </Link>
    or
    <Link route='/blog/hello-world'>
      <a>Hello world</a>
    </Link>
  </div>
)
```

API:

- `<Link route='name'>...</Link>`
- `<Link route='name' params={params}> ... </Link>`
- `<Link route='/path/to/match'> ... </Link>`

Props:

- `route` - Route name or URL to match (alias: `to`)
- `params` - Optional parameters for named routes

It generates the URLs for `href` and `as` and renders `next/link`. Other props like `prefetch` will work as well.

### `Router` example

```jsx
// pages/blog.js
import React from 'react'
import routes from '../routes'

const { Router } = routes

export default class Blog extends React.Component {
  handleClick () {
    // With route name and params
    Router.pushRoute('blog', {slug: 'hello-world'})
    // With route URL
    Router.pushRoute('/blog/hello-world')
  }
  render () {
    return (
      <div>
        <div>{this.props.url.query.slug}</div>
        <button onClick={this.handleClick}>Home</button>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

API:

- `Router.pushRoute(route)`
- `Router.pushRoute(route, params)`
- `Router.pushRoute(route, params, options)`

Arguments:

- `route` - Route name or URL to match
- `params` - Optional parameters for named routes
- `options` - Passed to Next.js

The same works with `.replaceRoute()` and `.prefetchRoute()`

It generates the URLs and calls `next/router`

---

Optionally you can provide custom `Link` and `Router` objects, for example:

```javascript
const nextRoutes = require('@yolkai/next-routes').default

const routes = nextRoutes({
  Link: require('./my/link')
  Router: require('./my/router')
})

module.exports = routes
```

---

##### Related links

- [zeit/next.js](https://github.com/zeit/next.js) - Framework for server-rendered React applications
- [path-to-regexp](https://github.com/pillarjs/path-to-regexp) - Express-style path to regexp
